# Shed of Graphs

## Authors

Vincent Van Schependom  
Arne Claerhout

## Changelog

- 0.0 _(22/04/24)_
- Project creation
- 1.0 _(22/04/24)_
  - Created `stage1` branch
  - Added instructions in `README.md`
  - Started development
- 1.1 _(23/04/24)_
  - Created foundations for `filter_graphs.py`, `generate_graphs.py`
  - Added example `example_filter.json`
  - Updated `requirements.txt`
- 1.2 _(24/03/24)_
  - Added the compiling of Plantri, since this is system-dependent and we can thus not include the compiled program on this repository.
- 2.0 _(25/03/24)_
  - Merged `stage1` with `main`
  - Created `stage2` branch
  - Added the history implementation
  - Added an explanation to `README.md` about the history of generated graphs
- 2.1 _(26/03/24)_
  - Refactored code in `filter_graphs.py`:
    - Added main method
    - Everything has its own function now; this will make unit testing easier
- 3.0 _(26/03/24)_
  - Merged `stage2` with `main`
  - Created `stage3` branch
- 3.1 _(26/03/24)_
  - Created first tests for `passed_filter()`
- 3.2 _(28/03/24)_
  - Split the history functionality into seperate methods `generate_history()` and `write_history()`
  - Added additional unit tests for filter and history functionality
- 4.0 _(28/03/24)_
  - Merged `stage3` with `main`
  - Created `stage4` branch
- 4.1 _(28/03/24)_
  - Added rule expansion

## Todo-list

- [x] **Stage 1**: Filter implementation in Python
  - [x] Bash script
  - [x] Python script
- [x] **Stage 2**: System history (history.txt)
  - [x] History functionality
- [x] **Stage 3**: Unit testing
  - [x] Testing functionality
- [ ] **Stage 4**: Rule expansion
- [ ] **Stage 5**: History file backups
- [ ] **Stage 6**: Bash script for multithreading
- [ ] **Stage 7**: Exporting graph drawings
- [ ] **Stage 8**: Web server
- [ ] **Stage 9**: Docker

## Features

### Graph generation

Generates graphs of a given order, that comply with a provided set of filters. Click [here](#using-the-graph-filter) to skip to the usage instructions for generating graphs.

The underlying logic is as follows: the bash script `generate_graphs.sh` generates all graphs of the given order using _Plantri_. This script then pipes its output - a bunch of _Graph6_ encoded graphs - to the Python script `filter_graphs.py`, which filters all these graphs based on the given criteria in the `filter.json` file.

A history of all generated graphs is kept in the `history.txt` file. For more information about this file, click [here](#viewing-the-history).

## Usage

### Installing Python dependencies in virtual environment

#### Pip

<details>

  <summary>
    Click to expand
  </summary>

Create a **new** virtual environment with the needed dependencies in the folder `sog-venv`, which is ignored by `.gitignore`:

> `python3 -m venv shedofgraphs ./sog-venv`

**Activate** the virtual environment:

> `source sog-venv/bin/activate`

Update dependencies in existing virtual environment

> `pip3 install --upgrade -r requirements.txt`

</details>

#### Conda

<details>

  <summary>
    Click to expand
  </summary>

Create a **new** Conda environment with the needed dependencies:

> `conda create --name shedofgraphs --file requirements.txt`

Activating the environment:

> `conda activate shedofgraphs`

Update dependencies in **existing** Conda virtual environment:

> `conda install --name shedofgraphs --file requirements.txt`

</details>

### Installing Plantri

Run the following command from within the project folder to compile the Plantri file:

> `cc -o plantri -O4 ./plantri54/plantri.c`

### Using the graph filter

#### Defining filters

First, create a `filter.json` file, in which you specify which filters you want to apply to the graphs generated by _Plantri_. You can name this file anything you want, just make sure to enter the right name in a [later step](#running-the-script).

Filters have a name and one or two parameters. An overview of allowed filters is given below:

- **only_degree**
  - The graph can **only** contain vertices with degree(s) _\<degree\>_
  - Arguments:
    - _degree_: either and integer or a list of integers
- **min_degree**
  - The graph must contain **at least** _\<amount\>_ vertices with degree _\<degree\>_
  - Arguments:
    - _degree_: either and integer or a list of integers
    - _amount_: an integer
- **max_degree**
  - The graph must contain **at most** _\<amount\>_ vertices with degree _\<degree\>_
  - Arguments:
    - _degree_: either and integer or a list of integers
    - _amount_: an integer
- **exact_degree**
  - The graph must contain **exactly** _\<amount\>_ vertices with degree _\<degree\>_
  - Arguments:
    - _degree_: either and integer or a list of integers
    - _amount_: an integer

An example for the filterfile in JSON-format is shown below:

> **example_filter.json**
>
> ```json
> {
>   "max_degree": {
>     "degree": 2,
>     "amount": 3
>   },
>   "min_degree": {
>     "degree": 4,
>     "amount": 5
>   }
> }
> ```

Another example - passing a list in the `degree` argument - is shown below:

> **example_filter_2.json**
>
> ```json
> {
>   "exact": {
>     "degree": [3, 4, 5],
>     "amount": 7
>   }
> }
> ```

#### Running the script

Run the bash script `generate_graphs.sh`, providing both the desired order of the graphs to be generated, as well as the relative path to the `filter.json` file, that contains the filters to be applied:

> `./generate_graphs.sh <plantri_order> <path_to_filter>`

An example is shown below:

> `./generate_graphs.sh 8 example_filter.json`

#### Viewing the history

After running the bash script correctly for the first time, a `history.txt` file will be created. If the file already exists, the Python script will append entries at the end of this file.

Each entry represents 20 processed graphs using the following format:

> `<timestamp>\t<inputNumber>\t<outputNumber>\t<filter>\t<passedGraphList>`
>
> - `timestamp:` the current time in `%d/%m/%Y %H:%M:%S` format
> - `inputNumber:` the number of graphs generated of the given order by Plantri
> - `outputNumber:` the number of of graphs that passed the provided filter
> - `filter:` the provided JSON filter, parsed as a string
> - `passedGraphList:` a comma-seperated list of the Graph6 representations of graphs that passed the filter

## Contents

- `requirements.txt`:
  A file containing all Python dependencies that are required, used by the Python virtual environment.
- `README.md`:
  The file you're reading right now.
- `.gitignore`:
  A file containing rules about what not to push to the remote repository.
- `generate_graphs.sh`:
  A bash script for generating graphs.
- `filter_graphs.py`:
  A Python script for filtering graphs. This file is ran by the bash script that generates graphs.
- `/plantri54`:
  A folder containing the necessary files for compiling the Plantri C program.
- `example_filter.json`:
  A json file containing an example for how to use the filter format.
